packages/docs/docs/features/radon-ai.md, before:

---
id: radon-ai
title: Radon AI
sidebar_position: 9
---

Radon AI is a GitHub Copilot Chat integration enhanced with up-to-date information about the React Native ecosystem.

Before answering your question, Radon AI queries a React Native knowledge database with your project context.

<img width="550" src="/img/docs/ide_chat_response.png" className="shadow-image"/>

## Start a chat with Radon AI

### Pre-requisites

Radon AI Chat

First install GitHub Copilot Chat extension from Visual Studio Marketplace.

<img width="375" src="/img/docs/ide_chat_github_copilot.png" className="shadow-image"/>

### Usage

You can open the GitHub Copilot Chat panel prefilled with `@radon` via `Radon IDE: Chat with Radon AI` command.

To start chatting with Radon AI open GitHub Copilot Chat panel and prepend your message with `@radon`.

Messages that you want to sent to Radon AI need to be prepended with `@radon`.

<img width="375" src="/img/docs/ide_chat_request.png" className="shadow-image"/>

## Privacy

We do not store user queries (prompts) or project data provided to the Radon AI chat. Your data is used to query the Radon ID knowledge database before sending to GitHub Copilot Chat LLM.

Commit message:

docs: update Radon AI documentation with usage instructions and limitations

packages/docs/docs/features/radon-ai.md, after:

---
id: radon-ai
title: Radon AI
sidebar_position: 9
---

Radon AI is a [GitHub Copilot Chat](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitHub.copilot-chat) integration enhanced with up-to-date information about the React Native ecosystem.

Before answering your question, Radon AI queries a React Native knowledge database alongside with parts of your project context.

<img width="550" src="/img/docs/ide_chat_response.png" className="shadow-image"/>

## Pre-requisites

You need to have GitHub Copilot Chat extension installed to use Radon AI.

GitHub Copilot Chat comes with a [GitHub Copilot Free](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/managing-copilot/managing-copilot-as-an-individual-subscriber/managing-copilot-free/about-github-copilot-free) without needing to sign up for another subscription.

## Start a chat with Radon AI

To start chatting with Radon AI open GitHub Copilot Chat panel.

To open the GitHub Copilot Chat panel you can use "Chat: Open Chat" or "Radon IDE: Chat with Radon AI" available in vscode's command palette.

**Messages that you want to send to Radon AI need to be started with `@radon` prefix.**

<img width="475" src="/img/docs/ide_chat_request.png" className="shadow-image"/>

Radon AI has the context of the history of previous messages sent in the chat window started with `@radon`. This allows you to send additional follow-up questions.

To start a new conversation open a new chat window.

## Limitations

1. Radon AI will refuse answering questions outside of the React Native and Expo domain.

2. Like any technology based on large language models, Radon AI is prone to errors. Make sure to check important information before making decisions.

3. Currently (April 2025) the knowledge database used by Radon AI does not contain code. This means that React Native code snippets generated by Radon AI might not be accurate.

## Privacy

We do not store user queries (prompts) or project data provided to the Radon AI chat. Your data is used to query the Radon AI knowledge database before sending to GitHub Copilot Chat large language model alongside the package versions used in your project.
